Hello everyone and welcome to the lecture on the pipe operator the pipe operator is really useful when
you're working at the plier library and it's going to allow us to chain together multiple operations
or functions on a data set.
Let's go ahead and learn how it works and jump to our studio.
OK so here in our studio and before we even learn how to use the pipe OPERATOR I want to show the motivation
behind the idea of why you would use it versus other methods.
I'm going to start off with just importing the plier library just calling library on it and then I'm
going to go ahead and assign the built in empty car's data frame to death and first thing we're going
to try to do is perform multiple operations using nesting.
So I'm going to go out and say filter that data frame where the MPG column is greater than 20.
But that's actually not the only operation I want to do.
I also want to take a random sample from this result.
So I'll say sample underscore and and I want to go ahead and take five random samples from it and we'll
do one more operation.
I want to go ahead and arrange this so that it's in descending order by mpg
and close off that final print sees all say this all as a result and then I'll go ahead and prints my
results.
Let's go ahead and run this.
Make sure we roll everything correctly.
And there it is.
OK so I have my five random samples arranged by MPG from descending order greatest to least.
And it's also every mile per gallon is greater than 20 here.
OK so that's using nesting.
If you were to come back to this code this sort of code is a little difficult to read because you have
to read it from the inside out.
You have to say OK I got this result with the filter then I took the sample of it.
Then I arranged it so nesting isn't ideal for these sort of multiple operations especially if you can
do more than three or more than two because it starts to get hard reading a little messy.
So maybe you might be thinking well let's just do multiple assignments where each of these steps is
going to be assigned a variable.
Let's go ahead and try that out.
So we're going to go ahead and try to rewrite this using multiple assignments and a clear line 5 there
and I'll start off with just my filter step.
So I wanted again to filter the data frame mpg greater than 20.
I'll go ahead and just label that some variable A and then I want to go ahead and take a random sample
of a saw say pass an A and I'll go ahead and take five samples so that we will call that B.
And then finally what I want to do is arrange B.
So I'm going to go ahead and say arr. B and then descending order of MPG and we'll finally save that
to our result.
Let's go ahead and run this and see if we get something similar.
And we do know we don't get the exact same thing because we're taking a random sample of five here though
we do get the same idea.
We have MPG are all greater than 20.
It's in a descending order and it's a random sample of five rows here.
All right.
So this is a little better and a little cleaner to read.
The issue here though is that I've just created a bunch of variables that are all being stored in memory
.
So even though this is clear to read now Unfortunately I'm kind of wasting a lot of space time memory
by doing these multiple assignments.
So finally we have the motivation on trying to rewrite all of this using the pipe operator then we're
to chain together multiple assignments.
So it's going to delete that.
And finally use the pipe operator to do all of this.
So the syntax for the pipe operator is basically going to start off with your data.
You're going to call the pipe operator which is like this.
And then you're just going to have the operations you want to do on it.
So you say like Operation one over here operation to over here.
Operation three etc. and for each of these operations you won't need to pass in the data because you
use the pipe operator.
So I'm going to show you how this works super well with displayer so I have my data frame and I'm going
to go ahead and pasand the first operation and the first operation I want to do is filter.
I don't need to pass in my data because I Meason the pipe operator.
I'll go ahead and say mpg greater than 20.
Once I'm done with that I'm going to go ahead and pass it in the next step on this pipeline that I'm
essentially building and I want to sample and I will go ahead and just sample size 5.
So take five random samples of that.
Notice again I'm not passing on the data because the data is already going along this pipeline.
And then finally I want to arrange by descending order of MPG and we'll go ahead and put that whole
thing as a result.
So we'll just say result is that what's going to run this.
And there you have it.
So even though this is a long line we could break it up into multiple lines if we wanted to but we have
this nice pipe operator that hopefully takes the best of both nesting and multiple assignments just
like of nesting.
I'm able to chain together multiple operations and just like multiple assignments I'm able to actually
separate each of these into a nice easy to read separate step and the pipe operator allows us to do
this without having to create a bunch of variables in between.
So it performs this nice pipeline of operations and that's really how to use the pipe operator that's
all there is to it you're going to chain together your operations remember it goes your data.
The pipe operator syntax which is as percent saying greater than percent sign.
And then the operations you want to do and you don't pass in the data because you already have it at
the beginning.
OK.
So that's it for the pipe operator.
Hopefully find that useful in your own work when you're trying to do multiple assignments or multiple
operations or multiple functions on your dataset.
OK thanks everyone and I'll see you the next lecture